hey everybody does this sound familiar
you've gotten your 3D printer all set up
you're printing day and night everything
looks great you're taking pictures
you're showing them off to everybody and
then it happens the big question how
much well selling your print sounds like
a great idea make some of that money
back off the investment of learning as
well as the printer itself you know not
to mention that ongoing cost of filament
but then all those other questions pop
up how much do I charge Where do I sell
them how many can I reasonably make
should I buy more printers is that a
question it's a well those are great
questions and you definitely need
answers to all of them but don't forget
the most important question can I
legally sell these prints and before I
get too far into this I need to say
something I am not a lawyer and not any
of this should be considered legal
advice and by the way even though this
video is about finding prints you can
sell wouldn't feel right if I didn't at
least mention that making your own
designs is ultimately the best way for
you to go my intent here though is to
help you have a better understanding of
what 3D prints you can and most
importantly can't sell so first up a
question you'll ask and others will
probably ask you can you print a
favorite character from a movie or a TV
show and sell that for instance can you
sell a print of Disney Star Wars Marvel
characters things like that for example
here are a couple of my favorite prints
and while I'm okay as far as I know with
printing out all of these for myself
only one of these is legal for me to
sell and that's because I have a account
with the designer on patreon and now
you're thinking but I've seen prints on
Etsy and eBay in places of like Taylor
Swift and Darth Vader and the Hulk and
you know never thought I'd put those
three together like that but well how
are they doing it well truth is they're
probably doing it illegally and uh some
of them are getting away with it for now
I'm not going to get caught but I'm not
going to do it and I would recommend
that you don't either it's just not
worth it well next let's get an
understanding of some of the laws around
copyright and what you can look for one
quick note about all of this A good rule
of thumb to go by is that everything you
sell should be considered to be under
copyright until you have verified that
it isn't or at least you're legally able
to sell it on most every 3D database the
models available to you are free to use
for your own personal use and somewhere
on that page you'll usually see a box
with something that looks like this a cc
with a circle well that's called
creative comments it shows that the
person who made the model is allowing
you to use their personal creation but
only under certain conditions that they
stipulate as of the making of this video
Creative Commons is in version 4.0 so
that's what I'm going to show you here
if you see an NC with a slash through it
in any of the boxes that means that it's
not commercial and you won't be able to
legally sell those prints what you're
looking for though is the Creative
Commons licenses that allow you to sell
them right now there's a couple
different ones and you can find those by
looking for these letters by which means
by attribution the letters n d meaning
by attribution with no derivatives and
the letters sa which means by
attribution share a likee well by and sa
are the easiest to understand all you
need to do to sell these prints is make
sure when you're posting them or selling
them somewhere that you have a sign or
something that attributes the designer
of the model to what you're selling ND
is basically the same thing except
you're not allowed to make any changes
which means you're not allowed to remix
transform or build upon the design in
any way and as I understand it again not
a lawyer um you can print and sell it as
you received it but if you change it say
you put a second head on the figure well
that's not allowed two heads is better
than one and there is one more thing you
can look for public domain you probably
know what that means this type of
copyright allows for pretty much
anything you want want to do with it but
you should still give the author
designer some credit note that even if a
seller has marked their design as
available to sell they could be doing so
illegally if unintentionally like this
little character here that I found on
maker World from The Fallout series
obviously this isn't legal to sell but
the designer gave it a CC by rating and
just because it's made from scratch that
still infringes on copyright if you're
going to try to sell it well we figured
out what to look for to be safe legally
but now the big question is where do we
find these files well if you want to be
completely sure and covered there are
plenty of places to look I personally
have a subscription to STL flick that
allows for selling those prints and
other sites like QB 3D and even
Kickstarter have commercial use prints
one of my favorite places I mentioned
earlier is patreon there's a lot of
designers on there that allow commercial
use of their prints most for a pretty
low monthly subscription and don't
forget there's a lot of sites like
thingss that offer subscription Services
as well but what if you're just getting
started and you really don't want to pay
I got you covered I'm going to use maker
world and thingiverse to show this to
you but pretty much any 3D database that
allows you to search by license they'll
all work on maker World you'll need to
make sure you're in the full Library not
just the homepage and then it's super
simple to run a filter search by the
licenses we talk talked about that allow
for commercial use so scroll down select
public domain by bya and by ND or you
could run them one at a time and see
what comes up thing of verse makes it a
little more difficult but on the main
page just click on the drop down that
says filter by go down to license type
then click on the license you want to
filter with you can only do them one at
a time so uh don't forget to check out
the others now when you find a design
you like as I've talked about in some of
my other videos I recommend you save all
the information in a folder with the
name of the model on it I like to add
commercial use in parentheses to the
name so I can search for all those files
later well then make sure you save the
web page maybe a picture or two from the
model itself the description and the
files well you've made it this far so
you must be serious about this and the
last question you probably want to know
is how much do you charge
well there's a lot of sites and videos
that dig really deep into this topic so
you can check that out do some uh
searching on the internet but from
everything I've seen it really boils
down to just a few factors typically
it's a dollar hour print time plus cost
of filament plus model fee plus
electricity plus shipping and then add
on your personal pay well I found that
on average and what I've seen also is
that an hour of print time costs about a
dollar and that's a General average
using the cost of you know most printers
factored over about a three-year
lifespan then you need to decide on a
pay scale for you that you're
comfortable with usually based on your
experience and you also need to check
online and find the average cost of
other prints like what you're doing you
don't want to oversell and you
definitely don't want to sell yourself
short well there you go no legal advice
Just Some solid opinions I hope on how
to make sure your Printing and selling
the legal way and if you have any other
advice I may have missed or questions
just let us all know in the comments and
uh if you could help me out by liking
subscribing and sharing this video and
others that would be awesome and I'll
see you all next time in the lab as we
continue to learn create sell and amaze